- There's a strong demand for software engineers
and it's expected to keep growing.
Between 2020 and 2030,
the projected job growth in the field is estimated at 22%.
So there are many opportunities to enter the industry,
build your experience and advance your skills.
The salaries are enticing too.
With the average software engineer in the United States
making right around a $100,000
the pay can support most lifestyles.
Software developers also tend to have a lot of options
once they enter the field and gain some experience.
From a developer role you can transition
into specialized positions
like mobile development, cybersecurity,
or infrastructure engineering.
If you're dedicated and love learning,
there's a lot of mobility
and you can write the script for your career,
so that you get to work on solving problems.
you're passionate about.
With all this opportunity and potential,
everyone should become a software developer, right?
Not necessarily.
It's not a great match for everyone
and you don't want to invest a lot of time and resources
into a career that isn't the right fit for you.
So how do you know if a career in software development
is right for you?
Personally, I stumbled upon it by accident.
I was always interested in technology
but never had a real productive use for it.
Then I took a computer programming course at my high school
where I wrote my first line of code,
which I'll never forget.
It immediately sparked my curiosity.
And I started to envision myself
building more complex applications
that would make a difference in the world.
At that moment
I just knew it was what I wanted to do with my life
and I had the desire to learn more.
That's how my journey started.
So let's create that moment for you.
In your web browser, navigate to Replit
using the URL you see below.
Replit is an online tool for creating small code snippets.
And you can see I've already added a bit of JavaScript
in the editor.
So go ahead and type out this code,
then execute it by hitting the green Run button,
then over here in this black box known as the console
it will ask for your name.
So type it in and hit enter.
See what happens.
Congratulations, you just executed your first line of code.
Now after this video, take 15 minutes
and run some experiments with the code.
Read it, try to change the question
or make it ask for your last name along with your first name
and print it as well.
Don't worry about getting it right.
It's okay if something doesn't work
and don't be afraid to use Google for some help.
Once you've done that, just stop watching this course
and go about the rest of your day.
Then tomorrow set aside some time to do some reflection
ask yourself if you're still curious about that experience.
Did it get you excited?
Was it in the back of your mind for the rest of the day?
Maybe it was difficult, but were you drawn to the challenge?
If you just have to know more
and you're excited to create something more advanced,
come back to this course
and I'll show you where to begin a career in code.